when you're playing the cymbals you want
to make sure that you're standing up
straight with good posture and that
you're relaxed just the way you are when
you're playing any other percussion
instrument to grip the cymbals lay the
strap across the hand like this and then
hold the strap between the thumb and the
index finger it's very much like your
snare drum grip don't put your hand
through the strap and make sure that
you're not gripping the strap too far
away from the cymbal otherwise you won't
be able to control it you want the thumb
and the index finger to be just next to
the cymbal
then you'll have complete control of it
cymbals are very heavy so when you're
not playing them you're going to want to
set them down make sure that you set
them on a table with a towel on it so
that they don't make any sound as you're
setting them down or in some sort of
holder that also doesn't make any sound
when you put the cymbals into it it's
also important that when you're ready to
play and you're picking the cymbals up
that you're very careful that you don't
make any extra sound when you're ready
to play and you're holding the cymbals
hold them about one to two inches apart
you don't want to hold them very wide
apart just right about here and then
remember that playing loud full crashes
isn't done by bringing cymbals far apart
and then crashing them together most of
the sound comes from just how fast the
cymbals are coming together
when you're crashing the cymbals
together you want to avoid bringing all
of the edges of the cymbal together at
the same time this will create an air
pocket which is not the sound that
you're looking for also a really
important part of the cymbal crash is
the follow-through so after the cymbals
have come together the sound isn't done
yet the ringing of the cymbals after the
actual crash is just as important as the
crash cell so make sure that you keep
your hands off the cymbals and that
you're not setting the cymbals down
until the sound should be finished the
important thing with the follow-through
is that you're allowing the cymbals to
ring after the crash there's no extra
points for showing the cymbals to the
audience or to your mom after you're
done playing remember that playing the
cymbals you need to have a full dynamic
range just like you would on any other
percussion instrument so need to be able
to play soft crashes medium crashes and
loud crashes and soft crashes are harder
than you might think so
be sure to practice them if you need to
play them practice them before your
first rehearsal or concert to play a
soft crash just start with the cymbals
close together and then touch them
together to get a nice soft sound for
loud crashes use the weight of the
cymbals to do a lot of the work for you
you don't need to pull your arms wide
apart to play a loud crash
but the cymbals will need to start
slightly wider than they were starting
for soft crashes for marches or any
music where you're playing a lot of
crashes in a row you'll need to work on
getting a consistent sound for each
crash
you'll need to use muffling to stop the
sound after the crash to muffle you
simply bring the cymbals into your body
to stop them from vibrating you can
muffle very gradually over a long period
of time or you may need to muffle very
quickly if you're asked to muffle
quickly or to have a choked crash sound
it's important that you don't use a
hi-hat effect as you would do in
marching band this is not the sound of a
choked crash it's more like this
composers don't always accurately notate
exactly how long as simple should ring
for for instance maybe you have a
quarter-note crash but it should ring
for a much longer time you need to use
your ears and listen to the other
instruments in whatever ensemble you're
playing in to determine how long your
crash should ring